process-task-list.md, before:

# Task List Management

Guidelines for managing task lists in markdown files to track progress on completing a PRD

## Task Implementation
- **One sub-task at a time:** Do **NOT** start the next sub‑task until you ask the user for permission and they say "yes" or "y"
- **Completion protocol:**  
  1. When you finish a **sub‑task**, immediately mark it as completed by changing `[ ]` to `[x]`.
  2. If **all** subtasks underneath a parent task are now `[x]`, follow this sequence:
    - **First**: Run the full test suite (`pytest`, `npm test`, `bin/rails test`, etc.)
    - **Only if all tests pass**: Stage changes (`git add .`)
    - **Clean up**: Remove any temporary files and temporary code before committing
    - **Commit**: Use a descriptive commit message that:
      - Uses conventional commit format (`feat:`, `fix:`, `refactor:`, etc.)
      - Summarizes what was accomplished in the parent task
      - Lists key changes and additions
      - References the task number and PRD context
      - **Formats the message as a single-line command using `-m` flags**, e.g.:

        ```
        git commit -m "feat: add payment validation logic" -m "- Validates card type and expiry" -m "- Adds unit tests for edge cases" -m "Related to T123 in PRD"
        ```
  3. Once all the subtasks are marked completed and changes have been committed, mark the **parent task** as completed.
- Stop after each sub‑task and wait for the user's go‑ahead.

## Task List Maintenance

1. **Update the task list as you work:**
   - Mark tasks and subtasks as completed (`[x]`) per the protocol above.
   - Add new tasks as they emerge.

2. **Maintain the "Relevant Files" section:**
   - List every file created or modified.
   - Give each file a one‑line description of its purpose.

## AI Instructions

When working with task lists, the AI must:

1. Regularly update the task list file after finishing any significant work.
2. Follow the completion protocol:
   - Mark each finished **sub‑task** `[x]`.
   - Mark the **parent task** `[x]` once **all** its subtasks are `[x]`.
3. Add newly discovered tasks.
4. Keep "Relevant Files" accurate and up to date.
5. Before starting work, check which sub‑task is next.
6. After implementing a sub‑task, update the file and then pause for user approval.

Commit message:

feat: add step to confirm and enrich working context with developer before sub-task execution
Currently, the developer has no visibility into what context (files, rules, snippets, or metadata) is being passed to the LLM when executing a sub-task. This creates a “blind spot” that can lead to unintended reasoning or overlooked constraints.

This change introduces a new AI instruction: before performing any sub-task, the AI must summarize the working context and explicitly confirm it with the developer. The developer can review, add, or adjust context sources and considerations before the task proceeds.

This ensures transparency, prevents silent context gaps, and builds trust between the developer and the AI’s reasoning process.

process-task-list.md, after:

# Task List Management

Guidelines for managing task lists in markdown files to track progress on completing a PRD

## Task Implementation
- **One sub-task at a time:** Do **NOT** start the next sub‑task until you ask the user for permission and they say "yes" or "y"
- **Completion protocol:**  
  1. When you finish a **sub‑task**, immediately mark it as completed by changing `[ ]` to `[x]`.
  2. If **all** subtasks underneath a parent task are now `[x]`, follow this sequence:
    - **First**: Run the full test suite (`pytest`, `npm test`, `bin/rails test`, etc.)
    - **Only if all tests pass**: Stage changes (`git add .`)
    - **Clean up**: Remove any temporary files and temporary code before committing
    - **Commit**: Use a descriptive commit message that:
      - Uses conventional commit format (`feat:`, `fix:`, `refactor:`, etc.)
      - Summarizes what was accomplished in the parent task
      - Lists key changes and additions
      - References the task number and PRD context
      - **Formats the message as a single-line command using `-m` flags**, e.g.:

        ```
        git commit -m "feat: add payment validation logic" -m "- Validates card type and expiry" -m "- Adds unit tests for edge cases" -m "Related to T123 in PRD"
        ```
  3. Once all the subtasks are marked completed and changes have been committed, mark the **parent task** as completed.
- Stop after each sub‑task and wait for the user's go‑ahead.

## Task List Maintenance

1. **Update the task list as you work:**
   - Mark tasks and subtasks as completed (`[x]`) per the protocol above.
   - Add new tasks as they emerge.

2. **Maintain the "Relevant Files" section:**
   - List every file created or modified.
   - Give each file a one‑line description of its purpose.

## AI Instructions

When working with task lists, the AI must:

1. **Confirm and enrich the working context before proceeding**
   - Before starting any sub-task, identify and summarize all context sources that will influence the work (e.g., files, rules, code snippets, specifications).
   - Present this context clearly to the user:
     > “I plan to use the following context for this sub-task:  
     > [list of files / rules / snippets]  
     > Would you like to **add**, **remove**, or **adjust** anything?  
     > You may also include **additional considerations** (e.g., rules files, project constraints, encryption algorithms, standards, recent changes, or style preferences).”
   - Wait for explicit confirmation or updates from the user.
   - If new context or considerations are added, refresh the summary and reconfirm before proceeding.
   - Once confirmed, continue the task using the finalized context and considerations.

   **Notes:**
   - Encourages developers to surface tacit knowledge not captured in files.
   - Prevents “silent context gaps” that can cause unexpected outputs.
   - Reinforces trust and transparency between AI reasoning and developer intent.

2. Regularly update the task list file after finishing any significant work.
3. Follow the completion protocol:
   - Mark each finished **sub-task** `[x]`.
   - Mark the **parent task** `[x]` once **all** its subtasks are `[x]`.
4. Add newly discovered tasks.
5. Keep "Relevant Files" accurate and up to date.
6. Before starting work, check which sub-task is next.
7. After implementing a sub-task, update the file and then pause for user approval.
